Add a page about storage resource (#277)
meilisearch/documentation: resources/about_storage.md

# About storage

::: tip TLDR

> - If the database does not shrink after deleting documents or indexes, it is expected behavior. You are not losing space, MeiliSearch is keeping this space for performance reasons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the database does not shrink after deleting documents or indexes, it is expected behavior. You are not losing space, MeiliSearch is keeping this space for performance reasons.
```

- You should have the same amount of RAM than the space taken on disk by MeiliSearch for optimal performances.
  :::

MeiliSearch is a database. It stores the indexed documents along with the data needed to perform lightning search.

Writing a database is hard, and we do not want to reinvent the wheel, so MeiliSearch uses a storage engine under the hood. Using a storage engine allows MeiliSearch to focus on improving search relevancy and search performance while abstracting the complicated task of creating, reading and updating documents on disk, and in memory.

## LMDB

> The storage engine of MeiliSearch is [LMDB](http://www.lmdb.tech/doc/). LMDB is a transactional key-value store written in C that was developed for OpenLDAP, and it has ACID properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The storage engine of MeiliSearch is [LMDB](http://www.lmdb.tech/doc/). LMDB is a transactional key-value store written in C that was developed for OpenLDAP, and it has ACID properties.<br>
```

> We choose LMDB after successfully (or not) tried MeiliSearch with [Sled](https://github.com/spacejam/sled) and [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org/) and decided to move on with LMDB because it is the best combination of performance and stability for Meilisearch.

Reviewer 2: The second one with `after we successfully (or not) tried`

> We choose LMDB after successfully (or not) tried MeiliSearch with [Sled](https://github.com/spacejam/sled) and [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org/) and decided to move on with LMDB because it is the best combination of performance and stability for Meilisearch.

Reviewer 3: I would use `chose` instead of `choose`

### Memory mapping

> LMDB stores its data in a memory map. All data fetched in LMDB are returned straight from the memory map, which means there is no memory allocation or memory copy during data fetches.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
LMDB stores its data under memory mapped file. All data fetched from LMDB are returned straight from the memory map, which means there is no memory allocation or memory copy during data fetches.
```

> LMDB stores its data in a [memory-mapped file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memory-mapped_file). All data fetched from LMDB are returned straight from the memory map, which means there is no memory allocation or memory copy during data fetches.

Reviewer 3: All data fetched from LMDB `is` returned

Author: 💡 https://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2010/jul/16/data-plural-singular

> All documents stored on disk are automatically loaded in memory when needed by LMDB. This ensures LMDB will always make the best use of the RAM available to retrieve the documents.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All documents stored on disk are automatically loaded in memory when MeiliSearch asks for them. This ensures LMDB will always make the best use of the RAM available to retrieve the documents.
```

> For the best performance, it is recommended to allocate the same amount of RAM as the size that your data takes on disk, so all documents are always in memory.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For the best performance, it is recommended to provide the same amount of RAM as the size the database takes on disk, this way all the data structures can fit in memory.
```

### Understanding LMDB

> The choice of LMDB comes with certain pros and cons. As a result, someone has to understand LMDB database size and memory usage. This is well explained in [a blogpost of LMDB](https://symas.com/understanding-lmdb-database-file-sizes-and-memory-utilization/) and we are trying to summarize it here.

Reviewer 3: The choice of LMDB comes with certain pros and cons. `In oder to understand this choice, its upsides and downsides, we need to have an insight on how LMDB impact size and memory usage`. This is well explained in [a blogpost of LMDB](https://symas.com/understanding-lmdb-database-file-sizes-and-memory-utilization/) and `it is our goal` to summarize it here.

#### Database size

> When freeing entries from the database (in our case, removing documents from MeiliSearch), one can observe than no space disk is released. The space the entry took is marked as free for LMDB but not let available for the operating system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When freeing entries from the database (in our case, removing documents from MeiliSearch), one can observe that no space disk is released. The space the entry took is marked as free for LMDB but not let available for the operating system.
```

> When freeing entries from the database (in our case, removing documents from MeiliSearch), one can observe that no space disk is released. The space the entry took is marked as free for LMDB but not let available for the operating system.

Reviewer 3: When freeing entries from the database (in our case, removing documents from MeiliSearch), one can observe that no space disk is released. The space `previously used by the entry` is marked as free for LMDB but not let available for the operating system.

> Unlike other storage engines, LMDB chooses this design for performance issues as there is no need for a compaction phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike other storage engines, LMDB chooses this design for performance issues as there is no need for a compaction phase.<br>
```

> As a result, you may see that the disk occupied by LMDB and therefore by MeiliSearch keeps growing even when deleting indexes or documents. This is normal behavior, and you can note that the database will not grow again if you delete an index and recreate it after.

Reviewer 5: How does it know that it is the same index that I recreate? Is it based on name, schema or documents?

Author: It is not about recreating the same index or not, it is about space being freed from LMDB pov but not the OS pov

Reviewer 5: ```
As a result, you may see that the disk occupied by LMDB and therefore by MeiliSearch keeps growing even when deleting indexes or documents. This is normal behavior, and you can note that the database will not grow again if you delete an index and recreate it after.
```
Here you say that `keeps growing even when deleting indexes or documents` but you also say `the database will not grow again if you delete an index and recreate it after`. This confuses me.

#### Memory usage

> Since LMDB is memory mapped, it is the operating system that will manage the real memory allocated or not to MeiliSearch.

Reviewer 3: Since LMDB is memory mapped, it is the operating system `who` will manage the real memory allocated `   ` to MeiliSearch.

> Since LMDB is memory mapped, it is the operating system that will manage the real memory allocated or not to MeiliSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since LMDB is memory mapped, it is the operating system that will manage the real memory allocated or not to MeiliSearch.<br>
```

> Thus, if you run MeiliSearch as a standalone program on a server, LMDB will use the maximum RAM it can uses.

Reviewer 3: Thus, if you run MeiliSearch as a standalone program on a server, LMDB will use the maximum RAM it can `use` .

> Thus, if you run MeiliSearch as a standalone program on a server, LMDB will use the maximum RAM it can uses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, if you run MeiliSearch as a standalone program on a server, LMDB will use the maximum RAM it can uses.<br>
```

If you run MeiliSearch along with other programs, the OS will manage memory based on everyone's need making MeiliSearch quite flexible when used in development.

::: tip
**Virtual memory != Real memory**<br/>
Virtual memory is the memory asked by a program to the OS. This is not the memory that the program will actually use.

> In this case, MeiliSearch will always ask for a memory map of 200Gb. This will always be the virtual memory asked by MeiliSearch to the OS, but as you can see, the amount of RAM used will be less.

Reviewer 3: In this case, MeiliSearch will always ask for a memory map of 200Gb. This `refers to` the virtual memory `requested to the OS by MeiliSearch`, but as you can see, the amount of `real memory in` RAM used will be `smaller`.

:::

## Measured disk usage

> We did some measurements on the default [movies.json](https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch/blob/master/datasets/movies/movies.json) dataset that you can find in the [getting started guide](/guides/introduction/quick_start_guide.md#add-documents).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did some measurements on the default [movies.json](https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch/blob/master/datasets/movies/movies.json) dataset that you can find in the [getting started guide](/guides/introduction/quick_start_guide.md#add-documents).<br>
```

> This dataset is a JSON file of 8.6 Mb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This dataset is a JSON file of 8.6 Mb.<br>
```

> When we index this file in MeiliSearch, the amount disk size taken by LMDB is 122Mb.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When we index this file in MeiliSearch, the amount of disk space taken by LMDB is 122Mb.
```
